# DB12
Automated Vehicle Parking Slot Detection System using Deep Learning

### Introduction

Identification of parking spots in cities is a challenge especially during peak hours when people arereporting to work. An average of 7-8 minutes is spent by people cruising for a parking spot in the citywhich contributes to 30% of the traffic in the cities (D.Azshwanth, 2019). Most Motorists who parktheir vehicles in Nairobi Central Business District are forced to wake up early so that they can finduncopied parking spots (Musulin, 2017). To alleviate this problem, suggestions on how to solve cityparking spots have been given but majority have not been effective. An example, in Nairobi City, it hadbeen suggested that parking fee should be doubled so as to make people leave their cars at home but theproposal was rejected by the courts (Mediamax Network Limited, 2019). Other suggestions such asincreasing the number of parking spots have also been suggested but the solution is not sustainable dueto the increasing urbanization.
Computer Vision and deep learning algorithms can be applied to solve the parking spot detection incities and shopping malls. This will involve training a model to be able to recognize parking spaces fromother spaces, and vehicle detection. When parking spots and vehicles are detected, classification canthen be applied to distinguish between a parking spot that has been occupied by a vehicle from one thatis not occupied. This information can then be mapped to a user interface which drivers can use to checkfor parking spots in the city and in shopping malls. Drivers with thus be empowered with knowledge onwhere to locate a vacant parking area thus saving on time and preventing traffic congestion in the city.Suggestions to use Bluetooth technologies and sensors have been recommended, however this is anexpensive as it requires the existing parking slots be revamped and it is not applicable in open parkingareas due to vandalism of the materials. This thus makes computer vision a good approach as it involvesuse of a camera which is strategically position to view the parking spots. The training and recognition ofempty and occupied parking spots is done using machine learning algorithms such as convolution neuralnetwork which has enhanced object detection capabilities (Girshick R, 2015).

### Data Set
Link - https://public.roboflow.com/object-detection/pklot
